+++
title = '1. Install Kuma Control Plane'
date = 2023-11-26T00:27:50+05:30
draft = false
weight = 1
+++

Let’s deploy a sample shopping website. Clone this repository by running the following command
- `git clone https://github.com/pamruthav/Kubecon-CFP-2024-Kuma-Mesh.git`

Run the following kubectl command to deploy the sample application
- `kubectl apply -f demo-app.yaml`

Front-end UI of this app can be accessed on http://localhost:8080, port-forward your frontend service
- `kubectl port-forward service/frontend -n kuma-demo 8080`

Port-forward the kuma-control-plane service in the kuma-system namespace and access here `http://localhost:5681/gui/`
- `kubectl port-forward service/kuma-control-plane -n kuma-system 5681`

The current state of this application involves operating WITHOUT Kuma. This means all traffic flows directly between the services, not routed through any data plane proxies.

Let’s install the Kuma service mesh and see the difference. Before we install the mesh, we need to install Kumactl

Kumactl, a command-line interface (CLI) tool, that facilitates interaction with Kuma by enabling:
- Execution of read-only operations on Kuma resources within a Kubernetes environment.
- Reading and creation of resources in Kuma's Universal mode.
- Functioning as a client for the Kuma HTTP API.

##### Install kumactl

``` bash
curl -L https://kuma.io/installer.sh | VERSION=2.5.0 sh -
cd kuma-2.5.0/bin
PATH=$(pwd):$PATH
```

##### Install control plane

``` bash
kumactl install control-plane \
  --set "controlPlane.mode=standalone" \
  | kubectl apply -f -
```

Ensure all pods are up and running in the kuma-system namespace `kubectl get pods -n kuma-system`

Kuma (kuma-cp), a single executable in GoLang, offers universal deployment and simplicity. In a Kubernetes environment, it requires no external dependencies, utilizing the K8s API server for configuration storage. It automatically injects sidecar data plane proxies in Kubernetes, all you need to do is namespace labelling with __kuma.io/sidecar-injection: enabled__ The application's deployment YAML file already includes this label, eliminating the need for manual edits. Having integrated the control-plane into our cluster, it's necessary to either delete the current pods or execute a rolling update. This step allows the injector to fulfil its function

`kubectl delete pods --all -n kuma-demo`

Once these pods are up and running, observe that they are nearly identical to before except each pod now has an additional container. The additional container is the Envoy sidecar proxy that the control-plane is automatically adding to each pod.

`kubectl get pods -n kuma-demo -w`

The application UI, now utilizing Kuma, remains visually identical to its non-Kuma version. However, the underlying change involves services directing traffic to Envoy data plane proxies within the same pod, enabling communication between the Envoy proxies without any noticeable visual alterations for the user.

The mesh object can be viewed with the below command: (Observe that the mTLS is turned off)

`kubectl get meshes`