+++
title = '4. Kuma Traffic Routing'
date = 2023-11-26T00:27:50+05:30
draft = false
weight = 4
+++

### Traffic Routing

Traffic Routing policies enable the configuration of routing rules for L4 traffic, such as blue/green deployments and canary releases. Kuma facilitates traffic routing by matching tags assigned to Dataplane resources.

During the earlier application deployment, three versions of the backend application were manifested: backend, backend-v1, and backend-v2. The original backend service functions as a standard marketplace. Backend-v1 features one sale on the front page, while backend-v2 showcases two sales. The diagram below illustrates the assignment of version tags to the two destination services, aiding in canary deployment.

```
                        ----> backend-v0  :  service=backend, version=v0, env=prod
                      /
(browser) -> frontend   ----> backend-v1  :  service=backend, version=v1, env=intg
                      \
                        ----> backend-v2  :  service=backend, version=v2, env=dev
```

Backend-v1 and backend-v2 were initially deployed with zero replicas. Let's scale them up to one replica each to observe the functioning of traffic routing.

`kubectl scale deployment kuma-demo-backend-v1 -n kuma-demo --replicas=1`
`kubectl scale deployment kuma-demo-backend-v2 -n kuma-demo --replicas=1`

Check all the pods are running

`kubectl get pods -n kuma-demo`

##### Adding Routing Policy

v2 version has 2 items on sale. v1 has a one-time sale. Let's limit the amount of special offers that appear on the marketplace. To do so, apply this TrafficRoute policy to route the majority of our traffic to the v0 version

``` bash
cat <<EOF | kubectl apply -f -
apiVersion: kuma.io/v1alpha1
kind: TrafficRoute
metadata:
  name: frontend-to-backend
  namespace: kuma-demo
mesh: default
spec:
  sources:
  - match:
      kuma.io/service: frontend_kuma-demo_svc_8080
  destinations:
  - match:
      kuma.io/service: backend_kuma-demo_svc_3001
  conf:
    split:
    - weight: 80
      destination:
        kuma.io/service: backend_kuma-demo_svc_3001
        version: v0
    - weight: 20
      destination:
        kuma.io/service: backend_kuma-demo_svc_3001
        version: v1
    - weight: 0
      destination:
        kuma.io/service: backend_kuma-demo_svc_3001
        version: v2
EOF
```

This can be verified by refreshing front-end page, the two item sale (v2) will never come up